Newsletters: add 334, the 2024 year-in-review special (#2087)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-12-20-newsletter.md

cooperatively close their channels to avoid the need to go onchain.  The
design uses both [duplex micropayment channels][topic duplex
micropayment channels] and [LN-Penalty][topic ln-penalty] payment
channels, both of which are possible without any consensus changes.
Despite its complexity---combining multiple channel types and managing
offchain state---the design can be implemented by a single vendor
without requiring major protocol changes.  To support the design,
ZmnSCPxj later proposed a [pluggable channel factory tweak][news330
plug] to the LN specification.

<!-- FIXME
- https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2024/11/15/#mad-based-offchain-payment-resolution-opr-protocol

- https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2024/11/29/#lisp-dialect-for-bitcoin-scripting
- splice:
  https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2024/11/29/#core-lightning-7719
  -->

<div markdown="1" class="callout" id="optech">
## Summary 2024: Bitcoin Optech

In Optech's seventh year, we published 51 weekly [newsletters][] and
added 35 new pages to our [topics index][].  Altogether, Optech
published over 120,000 English words about Bitcoin software research and

> development this year, the rough equivalent of a 350-page book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
development this year, the rough equivalent of a 500-page book.
```
According to google, the average nonfiction book has about 233 words per page.

Author: That's pretty sparse.  I think I'm going to keep the assumption of about 350 words per page, since I believe that's what we've used for comparisons in the past and I think it roughly corresponds to technical books like from O'Reilly (e.g., Mastering Bitcoin 3rd ed is 130,000 words / 400 pages = 325 words per page).

In addition, every newsletter this year was accompanied by a [podcast][]
episode, totaling over FIXME:n hours in audio form and 488,000 words in
transcript form.  Many of Bitcoin's top contributors were guests on the
show---some of them on more than one episode---with a total of FIXME:n
different unique guests in 2024:

- FIXME:names

</div>

## December

FIXME:harding

*We thank all of the Bitcoin contributors named above, plus the many
others whose work was just as important, for another incredible year of
Bitcoin development.  The Optech newsletter will return to its regular

> Wednesday publication schedule on January 3rd.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Friday publication schedule on January 3rd.*
```

  * [Weak blocks](#weakblocks)
  * [Restarting testnet](#testnet)
  * [Developers arrested](#devarrests)
* May
  * [Silent payments](#silentpayments)
  * [BitVMX](#bitvmx)
  * [Anonymous usage tokens](#aut)
  * [LN channel upgrades](#lnup)
  * [Ecash for pool miners](#minecash)
  * [Miniscript specification](#miniscript)
  * [Utreexo beta](#utreexod)
* June
  * [LN payment feasibility and channel depletion](#lnfeasibility)
  * [Quantum-resistant transaction signing](#quantumsign)
* July
  * [Blinded paths for BOLT11 invoices](#bolt11blind)
  * [ChillDKG key generation for threshold signatures](#chilldkg)
  * [BIPs for MuSig and threshold signatures](#musigthresh)
* August
  * [Hyperion network simulator](#hyperion)
  * [Full RBF](#fullrbf)
* September
  * [Hybrid jamming mitigation tests and tweaks](#hybridjamming)
  * [Shielded CSV](#shieldedcsv)
  * [LN offline payments](#lnoff)
* October
  * [BOLT12 offers](#offers)
  * [Mining interfaces, block withholding, and share validation cost](#pooledmining)
* November
  * [SuperScalar timeout tree channel factories](#superscalar)
  * [Fast and cheap low-value offchain payment resolution](#opr)

> * December

Author: It's weird with it and weird without it.  I'm gonna leave it in but no strong preference either way.

### Summary 2024: Major releases of popular infrastructure projects

- [LDK 0.0.119][] added support receiving payments to multi-hop [blinded
  paths][topic rv routing].

- [HWI 2.4.0][] added support for Trezor Safe 3.

- [Core Lightning 24.02][] included improvements to the `recover` plugin
  that "make emergency recoveries less stressful", improvements to
  [anchor channels][topic anchor outputs], 50% faster block chain
  syncing, and a bug fix for the parsing of a large transaction found on
  testnet.

- [Eclair v0.10.0][] "added official support for the [dual-funding
  feature][topic dual funding], an up-to-date implementation of BOLT12
  [offers][topic offers], and a fully working [splicing][topic splicing]
  prototype".

- [Bitcoin Core 27.0][] deprecated libbitcoinconsensus, enabled [v2
  encrypted P2P transport][topic v2 p2p transport] by default, allowed
  the use of opt-in topologically restricted until confirmation
  ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction relay]) transaction policy on test
  networks, and added a new [coin selection][topic coin selection]
  strategy to be used during high feerates.

- [BTCPay Server 1.13.1][] (and previous releases) made webhooks more

>   extensible], added support for [BIP129][] multisig wallet import,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  extensible, added support for [BIP129][] multisig wallet import,
```

- [Bitcoin Inquisition 25.2][] added support for [OP_CAT][topic op_cat]
  on signet.

- [Libsecp256k1 v0.5.0][] sped up key generation and signing and reduces
  the compiled size "which [its developers] expected to benefit embedded
  users in particular."

- [LDK v0.0.123][] included an update to its settings for [trimmed
  HTLCs][topic trimmed htlc] and improvements to [offers][topic offers]
  support.

- [Bitcoin Inquisition 27.0][] added signet enforcement of [OP_CAT][] as
  specified in [BIN24-1][] and [BIP347][].  It also included "a new
  `evalscript` subcommand for `bitcoin-util` that can be used to test
  script opcode behavior".  Support was dropped for `annexdatacarrier`
  and pseudo [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors].

- [LND v0.18.0-beta][] added experimental support for _inbound routing
  fees_, pathfinding for [blinded paths][topic rv routing],
  [watchtowers][topic watchtowers] for [simple taproot channels][topic
  simple taproot channels], and streamlined sending of encrypted
  debugging information.

- [Core Lightning 24.05][] improved compatibility with pruned full
  nodes, allows the `check` RPC to work with plugins, allows more robust

>   delivery of [offer][topic offers] invoices, and fixed for a fee

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  delivery of [offer][topic offers] invoices, and fixed a fee
```

  [full-RBF][topic rbf].  Default parameters for [assumeUTXO][topic
  assumeutxo] were added, allowing the `loadtxoutset` RPC to be used
  with a UTXO set downloaded outside of the Bitcoin network (e.g. via a
  torrent).

- [BTCPay Server 2.0.0][] added "improved localization, sidebar
  navigation, improved onboarding flow, improved branding options, [and]
  support for pluginable rate providers."  The upgrade includes some
  breaking changes and database migrations.

- [Libsecp256k1 0.6.0][] "added a [MuSig2][topic musig] module, a
  significantly more robust method to clear secrets from the stack, and
  removed the unused `secp256k1_scratch_space` functions."

- [BDK 0.30.0][] prepared for the anticipated upgrade to the version 1.0
  of the library.

- [Eclair v0.11.0][] "added official support for BOLT12 [offers][topic
  offers] and made progress on liquidity management features
  ([splicing][topic splicing], [liquidity ads][topic liquidity
  advertisements], and [on-the-fly funding][topic jit channels])."  The
  release also stopped accepting new non-[anchor channels][topic anchor
  outputs].

- [Core Lightning 24.11][] contained an experimental new plugin for

>   making payments that using advanced route selection; paying and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  making payments that use advanced route selection; paying and
```

{:#dualfunding}
[Support][news290 dualfund] for [dual funding][topic dual funding] was
to the LN specification along with support for the interactive
transaction construction protocol.  Interactive construction allows two
nodes to exchange preferences and UTXO details that allow them to
construct a funding transaction together. Dual funding allows a
transaction to include inputs from either or both parties. For example,
Alice may want to open a channel with Bob. Before this specification
change, Alice had to provide all of the funding for the channel. Now,
when using an implementation that supports dual funding, Alice can open
a channel with Bob where he provides all of the funding or where they
each contribute funds to the initial channel state. This can be combined
with the experimental liquidity advertisements protocol, which has not
yet been added to the specification.

{:#betfeerates}
ZmnSCPxj proposed trustless scripts enabling two parties to [bet on
future block feerates][news291 bets].  A user expecting to want a
transaction confirmed by some future block can use this to offset the
risk that [feerates][topic fee estimation] will be unusually high at the

> time.  A miner expecting to mine a block around the time the user needs

Author: Keeping as-is but I'll remove the "at the time" from the next sentence.

their transaction confirmed can use this contract to offset the risk
that feerates will be unusually low at the time.  The design prevents
manipulation seen in centralized markets, as the miner's decisions rely
solely on real mining conditions.  The contract is trustless with a
cooperative spend path that minimizes costs for both parties.

<div markdown="1" class="callout" id="vulnreports">
## Summary 2024: Vulnerability disclosures

In 2024, Optech summarized more than two dozen vulnerability disclosures.  The
majority were old disclosures from Bitcoin Core which were being
published for the first time this year.  Vulnerability reports give both
developers and users the opportunity to learn from past problems, and
[responsible disclosures][topic responsible disclosures] allow us all to
thank those who report their discoveries with discretion.

_Note: Optech only publishes the names of vulnerability discoverers if

> we think they made a reasonable effort to minimize the risk of harm to

Author: Leaving as-is.  I want to make it clear that this is a judgment call we're making unilaterally.  There's no objective standard for what constitutes "responsible" disclosure, so we have to make a guess (often based on limited information).

backups.

{:#musigthresh}
July saw the [merge][news310 musig] of several BIPs that will help
different software interact to create [MuSig2][topic musig] signatures.
Later in the month, Sivaram Dhakshinamoorthy [announced][news315
threshsig] a proposed BIP for creating scriptless [threshold
signatures][topic threshold signature] for Bitcoin's implementation of
[schnorr signatures][topic schnorr signatures].  This allows a set of
signers that have already performed a setup procedure (e.g. using
ChillDKG) to securely create signatures that only require interaction
from a dynamic subset of those signers. The signatures are
indistinguishable onchain from schnorr signatures created by single-sig
users and scriptless multisignature users, improving privacy and
fungibility.

## August

{:#hyperion}
Sergi Delgado [released][news314 hyperion] Hyperion, a network simulator
that tracks how data propagates through a simulated Bitcoin network. The
work is initially motivated by a desire to compare Bitcoin's current
method for relaying transaction announcements with the proposed
[Erlay][topic erlay] method.

{:#fullrbf}
Developer 0xB10C [investigated][news315 cb] the recent reliability of

> [compact block][topic compact block relay] reconstruction.  Sometimes

Author: Leaving as-is.  I'm not familiar with this rule.

new blocks include transactions that a node has not seen before. In that
case, the node receiving a compact block usually needs to request those
transactions from the sending peer and then wait for the peer to

> respond. This slows down block propagation.  The research helped

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think a short sentence improves the flow here.

advancing proposals for [covenants][topic covenants], scripting
upgrades, and other changes that would support advanced contract
protocols such as [joinpools][topic joinpools] and [channel
factories][topic channel factories].

In late December 2023, Johan Torås Halseth [announced][news283 elftrace]
a proof of concept program that can use the `OP_CHECKCONTRACTVERIFY`
opcode from the [MATT][topic acc] soft fork proposal to allow a party in a
contract protocol to claim money if an arbitrary program executed
successfully. It is similar in concept to [BitVM][topic acc] but simpler
in its Bitcoin implementation due to using an opcode specifically
designed for program execution verification.  Elftrace works with
programs compiled for the RISC-V architecture using Linux's ELF format;
almost any programmer can easily create programs for that target, making
using elftrace highly accessible.  Halseth provided an update on
Elftrace in August when it gained the [ability][news315 elftracezk] to
verify zero-knowledge proofs in combination with the [OP_CAT][topic
op_cat] opcode.

January saw the [announcement][news285 lnhance] of the LNHANCE

> combination soft fork proposal that includes previous proposals for

Author: Leaving as-is.  January doesn't own LNHANCE and it's the proposal, not the announcement, that includes previous proposals.

encryption would allow the creation of a public key that would
correspond to a particular program. A party who could satisfy the
program would be able to create a signature that corresponded to the
public key (without ever learning a corresponding private key).  This is
always more private and will often save space compared to previously
proposed covenants.  Unfortunately, a major downside of functional
encryption according to Rubin is that it is "under-developed
cryptography that makes it impractical to use presently".

Anthony Towns posted a [script][news306 catfaucet] for [signet][topic
signet] that uses [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] to allow anyone to spend coins
sent to the script using proof of work (PoW). This can be used as a
decentralized signet-bitcoin faucet: when a miner or a user obtains
excess signet bitcoins, they send them to the script. When a user wants
more signet bitcoins, they search the UTXO set for payments to the
script, generate PoW, and create a transaction that uses their PoW to
claim the coins.

Victor Kolobov [announced][news319 catmillion] a $1 million fund for
research into a proposed soft fork to add an `OP_CAT` opcode.

> Submissions must be received by 1 January 2025.

Author: Leaving as-is.

- [LDK 0.0.119][] added support receiving payments to multi-hop [blinded
  paths][topic rv routing].

- [HWI 2.4.0][] added support for Trezor Safe 3.

- [Core Lightning 24.02][] included improvements to the `recover` plugin
  that "make emergency recoveries less stressful", improvements to
  [anchor channels][topic anchor outputs], 50% faster block chain
  syncing, and a bug fix for the parsing of a large transaction found on
  testnet.

- [Eclair v0.10.0][] "added official support for the [dual-funding
  feature][topic dual funding], an up-to-date implementation of BOLT12
  [offers][topic offers], and a fully working [splicing][topic splicing]
  prototype".

- [Bitcoin Core 27.0][] deprecated libbitcoinconsensus, enabled [v2
  encrypted P2P transport][topic v2 p2p transport] by default, allowed
  the use of opt-in topologically restricted until confirmation
  ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction relay]) transaction policy on test
  networks, and added a new [coin selection][topic coin selection]
  strategy to be used during high feerates.

- [BTCPay Server 1.13.1][] (and previous releases) made webhooks more
  extensible, added support for [BIP129][] multisig wallet import,

>   improved plugin flexibility and begun migrating all altcoin support to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  improved plugin flexibility and began migrating all altcoin support to
```

  plugins, and added support for BBQr-encoded [PSBTs][topic psbt].

- [Bitcoin Inquisition 25.2][] added support for [OP_CAT][topic op_cat]
  on signet.

- [Libsecp256k1 v0.5.0][] sped up key generation and signing and reduces
  the compiled size "which [its developers] expected to benefit embedded
  users in particular."

- [LDK v0.0.123][] included an update to its settings for [trimmed
  HTLCs][topic trimmed htlc] and improvements to [offers][topic offers]
  support.

- [Bitcoin Inquisition 27.0][] added signet enforcement of [OP_CAT][] as
  specified in [BIN24-1][] and [BIP347][].  It also included "a new
  `evalscript` subcommand for `bitcoin-util` that can be used to test

>   script opcode behavior".  Support was dropped for `annexdatacarrier`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  script opcode behavior".  The release dropped support for `annexdatacarrier`
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  Passive is more efficient here.

  and pseudo [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors].

- [LND v0.18.0-beta][] added experimental support for _inbound routing
  fees_, pathfinding for [blinded paths][topic rv routing],
  [watchtowers][topic watchtowers] for [simple taproot channels][topic
  simple taproot channels], and streamlined sending of encrypted
  debugging information.

- [Core Lightning 24.05][] improved compatibility with pruned full
  nodes, allows the `check` RPC to work with plugins, allows more robust
  delivery of [offer][topic offers] invoices, and fixed a fee
  overpayment issue when the `ignore_fee_limits` configuration option is
  used.

- [HWI 3.1.0][] added support for the Trezor Safe 5.

- [Bitcoin Core 28.0][] added support for [testnet4][topic testnet],
  opportunistic one-parent-one-child (1p1c) [package relay][topic
  package relay], default relay of opt-in topologically restricted until
  confirmation ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction relay]) transactions,
  default relay of [pay-to-anchor][topic ephemeral anchors]
  transactions, limited package [RBF][topic rbf] relay, and default

>   [full-RBF][topic rbf].  Default parameters for [assumeUTXO][topic
>   assumeutxo] were added, allowing the `loadtxoutset` RPC to be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [full-RBF][topic rbf].  The release added default parameters for [assumeUTXO][topic
  assumeutxo], allowing use of the `loadtxoutset` RPC
```

Author: Leaving as-is.
